## erotic poems

## erotic poems

## E. E. Cummings Edited by George James Firmage W. W. NORTON & COMPANY NEW YORK    LONDON

Drawings copyright (c) 2010 by the Trustees of the
 E. E. Cummings Trust.
 Poems copyright (c) 1923, 1925, 1926, 1931, 1935, 1938, 1939, 1940, 1944, 1945, 1946, 1947, 1948, 1949, 1950, 1951, 1952, 1953, 1954, 1955, 1956, 1957, 1958, 1959, 1960, 1961, 1962 by E. E. Cummings; copyright (c) 1961, 1963, 1966, 1967, 1968 by Marion Morehouse Cummings; copyright (c) 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976, 1977, 1978, 1979, 1980, 1981, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by the Trustees for the E. E. Cummings Trust; copyright (c) 1973, 1976, 1978, 1979, 1981, 1983, 1985, 1991 by George James Firmage. All rights reserved

For information about permission to reproduce
 selections from this book,
 write to Permissions, W. W. Norton & Company, Inc.,
 500 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10110

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

Cummings, E. E. (Edward Estlin), 1894-1962.
 Erotic poems / E.E. Cummings; edited
 by George James Firmage.--1st ed.
 p. cm.
 ISBN: 978-0-87140-659-0
1. Erotic poetry, American. I. Firmage, George James. II. Title.
 PS3505.U334E76 2010
 811'.52--dc22 2009039886

W. W. Norton & Company, Inc.
 500 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10110
 [www.wwnorton.com](http://www.wwnorton.com)

W. W. Norton & Company Ltd.
 Castle House, 75/76 Wells Street, London W1T 3QT 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0

## erotic poems

## Contents [Begin Reading](9780871406590_ch01.html#ch01)

## iii. there is a moon sole in the blue night amorous of waters tremulous, blinded with silence the undulous heaven yearns where in tense starlessness anoint with ardor the yellow lover stands in the dumb dark svelte and urgent (again love i slowly gather of thy languorous mouth the thrilling flower) xvi. between the breasts of bestial Marj lie large men who praise Marj's cleancornered strokable body       these men's fingers toss trunks shuffle sacks spin kegs they curl loving around beers the world has these men's hands but their bodies big and boozing belong to Marj the greenslim purse of whose face opens on a fatgold grin hooray hoorah for the large men who lie between the breasts of bestial Marj for the strong men who sleep between the legs of Lil xxvii. her flesh Came at meassandca V ingint oA chute i had cement for her, merrily we became each other humped to tumbling garble       when a minute pulled the sluice emerging. concrete xxviii. raise the shade will youse dearie? rain wouldn't that get yer goat but we don't care do we dearie we should worry about the rain huh dearie? yknow i'm sorry for awl the poor girls that gets up god knows when every day of their lives aint you, oo-oo.        dearie not so hard dear you're killing me xi. i am going to utter a tree, Nobody shall stop me but first earth       , the reckless oral darkness raging with thin impulse i will have a dream i think it shall be roses and spring will bring her worms rushing through loam. (afterward i'll climb by tall careful muscles into nervous and accurate silence.... But first you) press easily at first, it will be leaves and a little harder for roses only a little harder last       we on the groaning flame of neat huge trudging kiss moistly climbing hideously with large minute hips, O .press worms rushing slowly through loam viii. irreproachable ladies firmly lewd on dangerous slabs of tilting din whose mouths distinctly walk your smiles accuse the dusk with an untimid svelte subdued magic while in your eyes there lives a green egyptian noise. ladies with whom time feeds especially his immense lips On whose deep nakedness death most believes, perpetual girls marching to love whose bodies kiss me with the square crime of life.... Cecile, the oval shove of hiding pleasure.       Alice, stinging quips of flesh.     Loretta, cut the comedy kid.... Fran Mag Glad Dorothy ix.

nearer: breath of my breath: take not thy tingling limbs from me: make my pain their crazy meal letting thy tigers of smooth sweetness steal slowly in dumb blossoms of new mingling: deeper: blood of my blood: with upwardcringing swiftness plunge these leopards of white dream in the glad flesh of my fear: more neatly ream this pith of darkness: carve an evilfringing flower of madness on gritted lips and on sprawled eyes squirming with light insane chisel the killing flame that dizzily grips. Querying greys between mouthed houses curl

thirstily.     Dead stars stink.     dawn.     Inane, the poetic carcass of a girl xi. god pity me whom(god distinctly has) the weightless svelte drifting sexual feather of your shall i say body? follows truly through a dribbling moan of jazz whose arched occasional steep youth swallows curvingly the keenness of my hips; or, your first twitch of crisp boy flesh dips my height in a firm fragile stinging weather, (breathless with sharp necessary lips)kid female cracksman of the nifty, ruffian-rogue, laughing body with wise breasts half-grown, lisping flesh quick to thread the fattish drone of I Want a Doll, wispish-agile feet with slid steps parting the tousle of saxophonic brogue. xvi. twentyseven bums give a prostitute the once -over. fiftythree(and one would see if it could) eyes say the breasts look very good: fimlysquirmy with a slight jounce, thirteen pants have a hunch admit in threedimensional distress these hips were made for Horizontal Business (set on big legs nice to pinch assiduously which justgraze each other).    As the lady lazily struts (her thickish flesh superior to the genuine daze of unmarketable excitation, whose careless movements carefully scatter pink propaganda of annihilation xviii. whereas by dark really released, the modern flame of her indomitable body uses a careful fierceness. Her lips study my head gripping for a decision: burn the terrific fingers which grapple and joke on my passionate anatomy oh yes! Large legs pinch, toes choke-- hair-thin strands of magic agony .... by day this lady in her limousine oozes in fashionable traffic, just a halfsmile (for society's sweet sake) in the not too frail lips almost discussed; between her and ourselves a nearly-opaque perfume disinterestedly obscene. xix. my girl's tall with hard long eyes as she stands, with her long hard hands keeping silence on her dress, good for sleeping is her long hard body filled with surprise like a white shocking wire, when she smiles a hard long smile it sometimes makes gaily go clean through me tickling aches, and the weak noise of her eyes easily files my impatience to an edge--my girl's tall and taut, with thin legs just like a vine that's spent all of its life on a garden-wall, and is going to die. When we grimly go to bed with these legs she begins to heave and twine about me, and to kiss my face and head. xxi. life boosts herself rapidly at me through sagging debris of exploded day the hulking perpendicular mammal a grim epitome of chuckling flesh. Weak thirsty fists of idiot futures bash the bragging breasts, puppy-faces to mouth her ugly nipples squirming in pretty wrath, gums skidding on slippery udders she lifts an impertinent puerperal face and with astute fatuous swallowed eyes smiles, one grin very distinctly wobbles from the thinning lips me hugely which embrace. as in the hairy notching of clenched thighs a friendless dingy female frenzy bubbles xiv. the ivory performing rose of you, worn upon my mind all night, quitting only in the unkind dawn its muscle amorous pricks with minute odour these gross days when i think of you and do not live: and the empty twilight cannot grieve nor the autumn, as i grieve, faint for your face O stay with me slightly.      or until with neat obscure obvious hands Time stuff the sincere stomach of each mill of the ingenious gods. (i am punished. They have stolen into recent lands the flower with their enormous fingers unwished xv. my naked lady framed in twilight is an accident whose niceness betters easily the intent of genius-- painting wholly feels ashamed before this music, and poetry cannot go near because perfectly fearful. meanwhile these speak her wonderful But i(having in my arms caught the picture)hurry it slowly to my mouth, taste the accurate demure ferocious rhythm of precise laziness. Eat the price of an imaginable gesture exact warm unholy xx. you asked me to come: it was raining a little, and the spring; a clumsy brightness of air wonderfully stumbled above the square, little amorous-tadpole people wiggled battered by stuttering pearl, leaves jiggled to the jigging fragrance of newness --and then. My crazy fingers liked your dress .... your kiss, your kiss was a distinct brittle flower, and the flesh crisp set my love-tooth on edge. So until light each having each we promised to forget-- wherefore is there nothing left to guess: the cheap intelligent thighs, the electric trite thighs; the hair stupidly priceless. xxii. utterly and amusingly i am pash possibly because .dusk and if it perhaps drea-mingly Is(notquite trees hugging with the rash, coherent light )only to trace with stiffening slow shrill eyes beyond a fit- and-cling of stuffs the alert willing myth of body, which will make oddly to strut my indolent priceless smile, until this very frail enormous star(do you see it?)and this shall dance upon the nude and final silence and shall the (i do but touch you)timid lewd moon plunge skilfully into the hill. xxiv. and this day it was Spring.... us drew lewdly the murmurous minute clumsy smelloftheworld.     We intricately alive, cleaving the luminous stammer of bodies (eagerly just not each other touch)seeking, some street which easily tickles a brittle fuss of fragile huge humanity.... Numb

thoughts, kicking in the rivers of our blood, miss by how terrible inches speech--it made you a little dizzy did the world's smell (but i was thinking why the girl-and-bird of you move.... moves.... and also, i'll admit--)

till, at the corner of Nothing and Something, we heard a handorgan in twilight playing like hell i.

O It's Nice To Get Up In, the slipshod mucous kiss of her riant belly's fooling bore --When The Sun Begins To(with a phrasing crease of hot subliminal lips, as if a score

of youngest angels suddenly should stretch neat necks just to see how always squirms the skilful mystery of Hell)me suddenly grips in chuckles of supreme sex. In The Good Old Summer Time. My gorgeous bullet in tickling intuitive flight aches, just, simply, into, her.     Thirsty stirring.     (Must be summer. Hush. Worms.) But It's Nicer To Lie In Bed --eh?     I'm

not.     Again.    Hush.    God.    Please hold.    Tight ii. my strength becoming wistful in a glib girl i consider her as a leaf thinks of the sky, my mind takes to nib -bling, of her posture.     (As an eye winks). and almost i refrain from jumbling her flesh whose casual mouth's coy rooting dies also.     (my loveFist in her knuckling thighs, with a sharp indecent stir unclenches into fingers.... she too is tired. Not of me. The eyes which biggish loll the hands' will tumbling into shall

--and Love 's a coach with gilt hopeless wheels mired where sits rigidly her body's doll gay exactly perishing sexual, iii. the dirty colours of her kiss have just throttled my seeing blood, her heart's chatter riveted a weeping skyscraper in me i bite on the eyes' brittle crust (only feeling the belly's merry thrust Boost my huge passion like a business and the Y her legs panting as they press proffers its omelet of fluffy lust) at six exactly the alarm tore

two slits in her cheeks.    A brain peered at the dawn. she got up with a gashing yellow yawn and tottered to a glass bumping things. she picked wearily something from the floor

Her hair was mussed, and she coughed while tying strings viii. her careful distinct sex whose sharp lips comb my mumbling gropeofstrength(staggered by the lug of love) sincerely greets, with an occult shrug asking Through her Muteness will slowly roam my dumbNess? her other, wet, warm lips limp, across my bruising smile; as rapidly upon the jiggled norm of agony my grunting eyes pin tailored flames Her being at this instant commits an impenetrable transparency. the harsh erecting breasts and uttering tits punish my hug presto! the bright rile of jovial hair extremely frames the face in a hoop of grim ecstasy ix. in making Marjorie god hurried a boy's body on unsuspicious legs of girl. his left hand quarried the quartzlike face. his right slapped the amusing big vital vicious vegetable of her mouth. Upon the whole he suddenly clapped a tiny sunset of vermouth -colour.    Hair. he put between her lips a moist mistake, whose fragrance hurls me into tears, as the dusty newness of her obsolete gaze begins to.    lean.... a little against me, when for two dollars i fill her hips with boys and girls ii. when i have thought of you somewhat too much and am become perfectly and simply Lustful.... sense a gradual stir of beginning muscle, and what it will do to me before shutting.... understand i love you.... feel your suddenly body reach for me with a speed of white speech (the simple instant of perfect hunger Yes) how beautifully swims the fooling world in my huge blood, cracking brains A swiftlyenormous light

--and furiously puzzling through, prismatic, whims,

the chattering self perceives with hysterical fright a comic tadpole wriggling in delicious mud vi. when you went away it was morning (that is, big horses; light feeling up streets; heels taking derbies (where?) a pup hurriedly hunched over swill; one butting trolley imposingly empty; snickering shop doors unlocked by white-grub faces) clothes in delicate hubbub as you stood thinking of anything, maybe the world.... But i have wondered since isn't it odd of you really to lie a sharp agreeable flower between my amused legs kissing with little dints of april, making the obscene shy breasts tickle, laughing when i wilt and wince vii. i like my body when it is with your body. It is so quite new a thing. Muscles better and nerves more. i like your body. i like what it does, i like its hows. i like to feel the spine of your body and its bones, and the trembling -firm-smooth ness and which i will again and again and again kiss, i like kissing this and that of you, i like, slowly stroking the, shocking fuzz of your electric fur, and what-is-it comes over parting flesh.... And eyes big love-crumbs, and possibly i like the thrill of under me you so quite new xix. she being Brand -new; and you know consequently a little stiff i was careful of her and(having thoroughly oiled the universal joint tested my gas felt of her radiator made sure her springs were O.

K.)i went right to it flooded-the-carburetor cranked her up, slipped the clutch(and then somehow got into reverse she kicked what the hell)next minute i was back in neutral tried and again slo-wly; bare, ly nudg.    ing(my lev-er Rightoh and her gears being in A 1 shape passed from low through second-in-to-high like

greasedlightning)just as we turned the corner of Divinity avenue i touched the accelerator and give her the juice, good (it was the first ride and believe i we was happy to see how nice she acted right up to the last minute coming back down by the Public Gardens i slammed on the internalexpanding & externalcontracting brakes Bothatonce and brought allofher tremB -ling to a: dead. stand- ;Still) xxx. (ponder, darling, these busted statues of yon motheaten forum be aware notice what hath remained --the stone cringes clinging to the stone, how obsolete lips utter their extant smile.... remark a few deleted of texture or meaning monuments and dolls resist Them Greediest Paws of careful time all of which is extremely unimportant)whereas Life matters if or when the your-and my-idle vertical worthless self unite in a peculiarly momentary partnership(to instigate constructive Horizontal business.... even so, let us make haste --consider well this ruined aqueduct lady, which used to lead something into somewhere) 16. may i feel said he (i'll squeal said she just once said he) it's fun said she (may i touch said he how much said she a lot said he) why not said she (let's go said he not too far said she what's too far said he where you are said she) may i stay said he (which way said she like this said he if you kiss said she may i move said he is it love said she) if you're willing said he (but you're killing said she but it's life said he but your wife said she now said he) ow said she (tiptop said he don't stop said she oh no said he) go slow said she (cccome? said he ummm said she) you're divine! said he (you are Mine said she) 72. wild(at our first)beasts uttered human words --our second coming made stones sing like birds-- but o the starhushed silence which our third's iv. What is thy mouth to me? A cup of sorrowful incense, A tree of keen leaves, An eager high ship, A quiver of superb arrows. What is thy breast to me? A flower of new prayer, A poem of firm light, A well of cool birds, A drawn bow trembling. What is thy body to me? A theatre of perfect silence, A chariot of red speed; And O, the dim feet Of white-maned desires! vii. After your poppied hair inaugurates Twilight, with earnest of what pleading pearls; After the carnal vine your beauty curls Upon me, with such tingling opiates As immobile my literal flesh awaits; Ere the attent wind spiritual whirls Upward the murdered throstles and the merles Of that prompt forest which your smile creates; Pausing, I lift my eyes as best I can, Where twain frail candles close their single arc Upon a water-colour by Cézanne. But you, love thirsty, breathe across the gleam; For total terror of the actual dark Changing the shy equivalents of dream. ix.

When thou art dead, dead, and far from the splendid sin,

And the fleshless soul whines at the steep of the last abyss

To leave forever its heart acold in an earthy bed,

When, forth of the body which loved my body, the soul-within Comes, naked from the pitiless metamorphosis,

What shall it say to mine, when we are dead, dead?

(When I am dead, dead, and they have laid thee in, The body my lips so loved given to worms to kiss,

And the cool smooth throat, and bright hair of the head--). iii. my deathly body's deadly lady smoothly-foolish exquisitely, tooled (becoming exactly passionate Gladly grips with chuckles of supreme sex my mute-articulate protrusion) Inviting my gorgeous bullet to vex the fooling groove intuitive... And the sharp ripples-of-her-brain bite fondly into mine, as the slow give- of-hot-flesh Takes, me; in crazier waves of light sweetsmelling fragrant: unspeakable chips Hacked, from the immense sun(whose day is drooled on night--)and the abrupt ship-of-her lips disintegrates, with a coy! explosion iv. first she like a piece of ill-oiled machinery does a few naked tricks next into unwhiteness, clumsily lustful, plunges--covering the soiled pillows with her violent hair (eagerly then the huge greedily Bed swallows easily our antics, like smooth deep sweet ooze where two guns lie, smile, grunting.) "C'est la guerre" i probably suppose, c'est la guerre busily hunting for the valve which will stop this. as i push aside roughly her nose Hearing the large mouth mutter kiss pleece vii. as we lie side by side

my little breasts become two sharp delightful strutting towers and

i shove hotly the lovingness of my belly against you your arms are young;

your arms will convince me, in the complete silence speaking upon my body their ultimate slender language. do not laugh at my thighs. there is between my big legs a crisp city. when you touch me

it is Spring in the city; the streets beautifully writhe, it is for you; do not frighten them, all the houses terribly tighten upon your coming: and they are glad as you fill the streets of my city with children. my love you are a bright mountain which feels. you are a keen mountain and an eager island whose

lively slopes are based always in the me which is shrugging, which is

under you and around you and forever: i am the hugging sea. O mountain you cannot escape me

your roots are anchored in my silence; therefore O mountain skilfully murder my breasts, still and always i will hug you solemnly into me. viii. my lady is an ivory garden, who is filled with flowers. under the silent and great blossom of subtle colour which is her hair her ear is a frail and mysterious flower her nostrils are timid and exquisite flowers skilfully moving with the least caress of breathing, her eyes and her mouth are three flowers.    My lady is an ivory garden her shoulders are smooth and shining flowers beneath which are the sharp and new

flowers of her little breasts tilting upward with love her hand is five flowers

upon her whitest belly there is a clever dreamshaped flower

and her wrists are the merest most wonderful flowers    my lady is filled with flowers her feet are slenderest each is five flowers her ankle is a minute flower my lady's knees are two flowers Her thighs are huge and firm flowers of night and perfectly between them eagerly sleeping is the sudden flower of complete amazement my lady who is filled with flowers is an ivory garden. And the moon is a young man who i see regularly, about twilight, enter the garden smiling to himself. viii. sometimes i am alive because with me her alert treelike body sleeps which i will feel slowly sharpening becoming distinct with love slowly, who in my shoulder sinks sweetly teeth until we shall attain the Springsmelling intense large togethercoloured instant the moment pleasantly frightful when, her mouth suddenly rising, wholly begins with mine fiercely to fool (and from my thighs which shrug and pant a murdering rain leapingly reaches the upward singular deepest flower which she carries in a gesture of her hips) ix. o my wholly unwise and definite lady of the wistful dollish hands (whose nudity hurriedly extends its final gesture lewd and exquisite, with a certain agreeable and wee decorum)o my wholly made for loving lady (and what is left of me your kissing breasts timidly complicate) only always your kiss will grasp me quite. Always only my arms completely press through the hideous and bright night your crazed and interesting nakedness --from you always i only rise from something slovenly beautiful gestureless x. my youthful lady will have other lovers yet none with hearts more motionless than i when to my lust she pleasantly uncovers the thrilling hunger of her possible body. Noone can be whose arms more hugely cry whose lips more singularly starve to press her-- noone shall ever do unto my lady what my blood does, when i hold and kiss her (or if sometime she nakedly invite me all her nakedness deeply to win her flesh is like all the 'cellos of night against the morning's single violin) more far a thing than ships or flowers tell us, her kiss furiously me understands like a bright forest of fleet and huge trees --then what if she shall have an hundred fellows? she will remember, as i think, my hands (it were not well to be in this thing jealous.) My youthful lust will have no further ladies. xiii. you said Is there anything which is dead or alive more beautiful than my body, to have in your fingers (trembling ever so little)? Looking into your eyes Nothing, i said, except the air of spring smelling of never and forever. .... and through the lattice which moved as if a hand is touched by a hand(which moved as though fingers touch a girl's breast, lightly) Do you believe in always, the wind said to the rain I am too busy with my flowers to believe, the rain answered xiv. is it because there struts a distinct silver lady (we being passionate O yes)upon the carpet of evening which thrills with the minuteness of her walking, for she walks upon the evening shy and luxurious     .and because we being passionate perceive o Yes where(immensely near) simply, but with a colour like the ending of the world rises slow ly balloonlike the huge foetus of The Moon    ? --with our gestures we pry and our mouths battle into distinctness. It is this kiss which builds in us ever so softly the coarse and terrible structure of the night. xvii. Lady, i will touch you with my mind. Touch you and touch and touch until you give me suddenly a smile, shyly obscene (lady i will touch you with my mind.)Touch you, that is all, lightly and you utterly will become with infinite ease the poem which i do not write. 2. Lady, since your footstep is more frail than everything which lives, than everything which breathes in the earth and in the sea because your body is more new,

a dream(skilfully who mimics, entirely who pictures yourself a skilfully and entirely moving dream with fingers, a dream with lifted little breasts and with feet)touches me through the day scarcely, timidly;

whereas, beside me through the long night and upon me, always i feel the crisply and deeply moving you which is so glad to be alive-- the you with hot big inward stealing thighs, perfectly who steal me; or as the wise

sea steals entirely and skilfully the ignorant earth. 2. in hammamet did camping queers et al) with caverns measureless to man and how lest which your worships deem apocryphal o get a load of yonder arab now bowed by the gaze of pederasts he queens upon his toe and minces at the sand the sorrows of young werther in his teens and in his pants the urging of the hand near and more near their draping selves redrape lascivious hips against insisting sky can there be no asylum no escape? (his donkey looks mohammed in the eye 6. "she had that softness which is falsity" he frowned "plus budding strictly chasms of uninnocence for eyes: and slippery a pseudomind, not quite which could believe in anything except most far from so itself(with deep roots hugging fear's sweet mud she floated on a silly nonworld's how precarious inexistence like some dead provocatively person of a thing mancurious and manicured)i gave the wandering stem a vivid(being young) yank; and then vanished. Seeing which, you dove and brought me to the surface' smiling "by my dick, which since has served me handily" 9. devil crept in eden wood (grope me wonderful grope me good) and he saw two humans roaming --hear that tree agroaning woman chewed and man he chewed (open beautiful open good) and their eyes were wet and shining --feel that snake aclimbing lord he called and angel stood (poke me darling o poke me good) with a big thick sword all flaming --o my god i'm coming 5. she, straddling my lap, hinges(wherewith I tongue each eager pap) and, reaching down, by merely fingertips the hungry Visitor steers to love's lips Whom(justly as she now begins to sit, almost by almost giving her sweet weight) O, how those hot thighs juicily embrace! and (instant by deep instant)as her face watches, scarcely alive, that magic Feast greedily disappearing least by least-- through what a dizzily palpitating host (sharp inch by inch)swoons sternly my huge Guest! until(quite when our touching bellies dream) unvisibly love's furthest secrets rhyme. 6. nw O h S LoW h myGODye ss 7. b et wee n no w dis appear ing mou ntains a re drifti ng christi an how swee tliest bell s and we'l l be you' ll be i' ll be ? ? ther efore let' s k is s 9. there are so many tictoc clocks everywhere telling people what toctic time it is for tictic instance five toc minutes toc past six tic Spring is not regulated and does not get out of order nor do its hands a little jerking move over numbers slowly we do not wind it up it has no weights springs wheels inside of its slender self no indeed dear nothing of the kind. (So, when kiss Spring comes we'll kiss each kiss other on kiss the kiss lips because tic clocks toc don't make a toctic difference to kisskiss you and to kiss me)